docs(tanstack): add a proper SSR quick start with cookie-based auth (#48105)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/auth/server-side/creating-a-client.mdx

SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=supabase_publishable_key
```

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="tanstack" label="TanStack Start">

```bash .env.local
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=supabase_project_url
VITE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=supabase_publishable_key

> ```

Reviewer: 🥳 

The number of tabs is getting long. May be something we will need to refactor later.
<img width="775" height="197" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8dce4eb9-b22c-47dc-8a78-8fa7ea94c57f" />

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="tanstack" label="TanStack Start">

> ### Write utility functions to create Supabase clients

Reviewer: I see that this section is based off of Next.js, but Next.js does not match the pattern of the others.

The content is written in a contextual manner with not a clear action step.

Tab | What's in it
-- | --
Astro, Nuxt, Express | Pure code, no prose at all. The "action" is entirely implicit — you infer what to do from the code fence filename (index.astro, server/api/hello.ts).
Remix, React Router, SvelteKit | Explicit numbered/labeled steps ("1. Create a server client in the loader... 2. Create a server client in the action...") — unambiguous, procedural.
Next.js, TanStack (new) | Heavy conceptual prose + one buried instruction.

1. **Browser client** - To access Supabase from components that run in the browser.
2. **Server client** - To access Supabase from loaders, server functions, and other code that runs only on the server.

TanStack Start renders matched routes on the server by default, so `beforeLoad` and `loader` run server-side on the initial request. Unlike Next.js, this means you don't need a proxy or middleware layer to keep sessions fresh. The server client reads and writes the session cookie directly on each request.

<$Partial path="auth_methods.mdx" />

Create a `lib/supabase` folder at the root of your project, or inside the `./src` folder if you are using one, with a file for each type of client. Then copy the lib utility functions for each client type.

<div className="mt-12">
  <$CodeTabs>
    <$CodeSample
      path="/auth/tanstack/lib/supabase/client.ts"
      meta="name=lib/supabase/client.ts"
      language="typescript"
    />
    <$CodeSample
      path="/auth/tanstack/lib/supabase/server.ts"
      meta="name=lib/supabase/server.ts"
      language="typescript"
    />
  </$CodeTabs>
</div>

### Protecting routes

> TanStack Start has no global middleware layer, so protect routes with a layout route's `beforeLoad` hook, backed by a server function that checks the session.

Reviewer: Action is buried in here. 
Action steps are clear when in a procedure or numbered steps.
```suggestion
TanStack Start has no global middleware layer, so protect each route explicitly.

To protect your routes:

1. Write a server function that checks the user's session and redirects if the session isn't valid.
1. Call that server function from a layout route's `beforeLoad` hook, before any nested route renders.
```

<Admonition type="danger">

`beforeLoad` only controls what gets rendered. It's a UX guard, not a security boundary. Because there's no proxy re-checking every request, the server function it calls is the **only** checkpoint before a redirect happens or private data is returned, so that function must authorize the request itself.

> Use `supabase.auth.getUser()` here, which revalidates the session against the Auth server on every call, rather than trusting local session data. This is a different tradeoff than the Next.js Proxy, which can rely on the cheaper `getClaims()` because it re-validates on every single request anyway. TanStack Start's per-route check needs the stronger guarantee, because it's the only check that runs.

Reviewer: This is a pretty heavy admonition. Does it better belong mostly in body with a shorter admonition?

Some style issues here:
- This is 'danger,' so something could be seriously harmed with the wrong move. The 'so what' should go as close to the first words as possible so that the reader can opt in to the text. In this case, perhaps the possible failure of security.
- Bold is for UI/UX elements, not for emphasis. 

You can use your agent to read `CONTRIBUTING.md` and `WORD_LIST.md` to polish.

> Use `supabase.auth.getUser()` here, which revalidates the session against the Auth server on every call, rather than trusting local session data. This is a different tradeoff than the Next.js Proxy, which can rely on the cheaper `getClaims()` because it re-validates on every single request anyway. TanStack Start's per-route check needs the stronger guarantee, because it's the only check that runs.

Reviewer 2: Could you explain this a bit more? Why can't we use `getClaims()` here?

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="tanstack" label="TanStack Start">

### Write utility functions to create Supabase clients

TanStack Start renders matched routes on the server by default, so `beforeLoad` and `loader` run server-side on the initial request. Unlike Next.js, this means you don't need a proxy or middleware layer to keep sessions fresh — the server client reads and writes the session cookie directly on each request.

Create a `lib/supabase` folder at the root of your project, or inside the `./src` folder if you are using one, then add a file for each type of client:

1. **Create a browser client in `lib/supabase/client.ts`.** Use it to access Supabase from components that run in the browser.

> 2. **Create a server client in `lib/supabase/server.ts`.** Use it to access Supabase from loaders, server functions, and other code that runs only on the server.

Reviewer: ❤️ For clean procedure

<$Partial path="auth_methods.mdx" />

Copy the lib utility functions below into each file:

<div className="mt-12">
  <$CodeTabs>
    <$CodeSample
      path="/auth/tanstack/lib/supabase/client.ts"
      meta="name=lib/supabase/client.ts"
      language="typescript"
    />
    <$CodeSample
      path="/auth/tanstack/lib/supabase/server.ts"
      meta="name=lib/supabase/server.ts"
      language="typescript"
    />
  </$CodeTabs>
</div>

### Protecting routes

TanStack Start has no global middleware layer, so protect each route explicitly.

To protect your routes:

1. Write a server function that checks the user's session and redirects if the session isn't valid.
1. Call that server function from a layout route's `beforeLoad` hook, before any nested route renders.

<Admonition type="danger">

> Skipping the check inside the server function exposes private data to unauthenticated users. `beforeLoad` only controls what the client renders — it's a UX guard, not a security boundary. Because there's no proxy re-checking every request, the server function is the only checkpoint before a redirect happens or private data returns, so it must call `supabase.auth.getClaims()` to authorize the request itself.

Author: Should be fixed!
